developer_notes/mvp_design.md, before:

# Design of the MVP

I'll leave here the ideas I have for the initial design of the app.

## Main screen

- Small top bar with "edit profiles" button on the left, and "choose profile" button on the right.
  - Choose profile button has the name fo the profile followed by the avatar
- The rest of the screen is a vertical scrollable list of named roll components

## Named roll

- Being right handed, I'll put the roll button and the modifiers button on the right, one on top of the other with the roll one being much more prominent.
- On the left and occupying the majority of the component will be the box for the roll's result, with the name of the roll and the roll's description on top.
  - The name of the roll will be ontop of the roll's description, and the description will be the dice and modifiers that will be rolled, displayed in a fainter and smaller font.
  - The roll's result box will occupy all its available space horizontally, leaving enough room for the two elements that will be inside:
    1. The main roll result in the bottom, a single number, more prominent than the roll analysis.
    2. The roll analysis, which will be a less prominent string of text above the main roll result. This text will be the same as the roll description except with the result of each die roll noted in parentheses next to the die. For example if the roll description is "1d20+5+1d4", the roll analysis may look something like "1d20 (14) + 5 + 1d4 (1)".

## Modifiers

- The modifiers button on every named roll will open a modal where the user will be able to select modifiers to the dice roll using checkboxes.
- After being selected, the user will be able to either press save or click outside the modal box to accept the selected modifiers.
- The selected modifiers will be displayed on the description of the roll, under the name, over the result box. They will be shown in the same string following the base roll.
- When clicking the roll button, the roll will include the selected modifiers.
- This all means that possible modifiers need to be stored together with the named roll information.

### Details

- After having selected modifiers and closed the modal, if you open the modal again the modifiers you selected previously will still be selected, ready to be deselected if so desired.
- To account for an arbitrary number of modifiers and different screen sizes, the modifiers list in the modal will be scrollable. However, the save button on the bottom of the modal will always be visible.

Commit message:

Starting with toggle icon buttons and groups

developer_notes/mvp_design.md, after:

# Design of the MVP

I'll leave here the ideas I have for the initial design of the app.

## Main screen

- Small top bar with "edit profiles" button on the left, and "choose profile" button on the right.
  - Choose profile button has the name fo the profile followed by the avatar
- The rest of the screen is a vertical scrollable list of named roll components

## Named roll

- Being right handed, I'll put the roll button and the modifiers button on the right, one on top of the other with the roll one being much more prominent.
- Below the two buttons there will be three horizontally aligned checkboxes which will activate a different function fo the roll each: advantage, disadvantage, and critical. This checkboxes will have no label and will look like icons (A for advantage, D for disadvantage, and x2 for critical), which will be colored when active and greyed out when inactive. Only one of them can be active at a time.

  - If Advantage is active it will look for the first d20 on the roll, and if there is one, change it so it will roll twice and use only the higher result.
  - If Disadvantage is active it will do the same but take the lower roll instead.
  - If Critical is active it will double the amount of each die on the roll.

- On the left and occupying the majority of the component will be the box for the roll's result, with the name of the roll and the roll's description on top.
  - The name of the roll will be ontop of the roll's description, and the description will be the dice and modifiers that will be rolled, displayed in a fainter and smaller font.
  - The roll's result box will occupy all its available space horizontally, leaving enough room for the two elements that will be inside:
    1. The main roll result in the bottom, a single number, more prominent than the roll analysis.
    2. The roll analysis, which will be a less prominent string of text above the main roll result. This text will be the same as the roll description except with the result of each die roll noted in parentheses next to the die. For example if the roll description is "1d20+5+1d4", the roll analysis may look something like "1d20 (14) + 5 + 1d4 (1)".

## Modifiers

- The modifiers button on every named roll will open a modal where the user will be able to select modifiers to the dice roll using checkboxes.
- After being selected, the user will be able to either press save or click outside the modal box to accept the selected modifiers.
- The selected modifiers will be displayed on the description of the roll, under the name, over the result box. They will be shown in the same string following the base roll.
- When clicking the roll button, the roll will include the selected modifiers.
- This all means that possible modifiers need to be stored together with the named roll information.

### Details

- After having selected modifiers and closed the modal, if you open the modal again the modifiers you selected previously will still be selected, ready to be deselected if so desired.
- To account for an arbitrary number of modifiers and different screen sizes, the modifiers list in the modal will be scrollable. However, the save button on the bottom of the modal will always be visible.
